README.rst, before:

Medadata Schema for the Persistent Identification of Scientific Instruments
===========================================================================

The `Research Data Alliance`_ working group `Persistent Identification
of Instruments WG`_ seeks to explore a community-driven solution for
globally unique identification of active instruments in the sciences.

This repository holds the (current draft for the) medadata schema for
this PID system.

Map the Schema to DataCite
--------------------------

The present branch presents a variant version of the schema, mapped to
the current `DataCite Metadata Schema 4.2`_.  This mapping mostly
follows suggestions by Ted Habermann.

Copyright and License
---------------------

Copyright 2019 RDA Persistent Identification of Instruments WG

This work is licensed under the `Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License`_.

.. image:: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png

.. _Research Data Alliance: https://www.rd-alliance.org/
.. _Persistent Identification of Instruments WG: https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/persistent-identification-instruments-wg
.. _DataCite Metadata Schema 4.2: https://schema.datacite.org/meta/kernel-4.2/
.. _Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Commit message:

Do not replace the original schema by the mapping onto DataCite but rather add that mapping next to the original one.

README.rst, after:

Medadata Schema for the Persistent Identification of Scientific Instruments
===========================================================================

The `Research Data Alliance`_ working group `Persistent Identification
of Instruments WG`_ seeks to explore a community-driven solution for
globally unique identification of active instruments in the sciences.

This repository holds the (current draft for the) medadata schema for
this PID system.  There are two variants:

1. the original schema has been formulated based on the evaluation of
   use cases collected by the working group.

2. a mapping of the original schema onto the current `DataCite
   Metadata Schema 4.2`_.

Copyright and License
---------------------

Copyright 2019 RDA Persistent Identification of Instruments WG

This work is licensed under the `Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License`_.

.. image:: https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png

.. _Research Data Alliance: https://www.rd-alliance.org/
.. _Persistent Identification of Instruments WG: https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/persistent-identification-instruments-wg
.. _DataCite Metadata Schema 4.2: https://schema.datacite.org/meta/kernel-4.2/
.. _Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
